# texasfemalecounties
Deciphering if the amount of females in a county affect the median household income. There are more females than males in the state of Texas. Counties can find if and how the number of females to males affects household income. Government policies can support the population better if statistical significance is available. Data science and econometric tools are used in this study to identify a relationship of the percentage of females on the median household income.

According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, labor force participation rates in the United States have decreased slightly in the last two decades. In 2000, the labor force participation rate for women 25 to 54 (prime age) was 76.7%, and in 2020 it was 75.1%. For men, it has decreased more as it was 91.6% in 2000 and 87.9% in 2020. Furthermore, women workers in 2014 were earning about 79 percent of what men made annually (Blau and Kahn, 2017). A county in Texas can notice the percentage of females in its population and decide whether it can use policy to support females in improving their relationship to household income or vice-versa with males. Suppose an increase in the percentage of females increases the median household income. In that case, a county can use marketing strategies to encourage females to move to it from other places outside of Texas. Counties can also use the marketing idea vice-versa with males.

PS This study was originally undertaken in November of 2021 and I used Excel to do the data preparation and STATA to do the regression analysis. I am recreating this study using Python, and delving deeper into EDA, Feature Engineering, and the model building aspect.
